---
title: What We Do
---

We started Forward Loop to help plastics manufacturers improve their understanding of how their machines work and why they sometimes don’t. We believe that the factory of the future looks just like your shop floor, fitted out with easy-to-use sensors and monitoring equipment that you can afford, understand, and rely on every day.

We noticed a few key things about the industry that led us to develop our first product. Here’s a list of the four major realizations that got us started:

1. **There’s more than one way to connect to the Internet**

    Most internet technologies take for granted that everyone always has access to a high-speed wifi connection. While this assumption might work for the office-bound 9-to-5 crowd, it falls short  for most manufacturing facilities and shop floors.  At Forward Loop, we’ve hurdled  the barrier of wifi coverage by building a product that connects to the Internet anywhere you have cellular coverage.

2. **Products for manufacturers should fit American, European, and Chinese machines, small and big, new and old.**

    At Forward Loop, we know plastics manufacturers  run machines of all different shapes, sizes, brands, makes, and models so one-size-fits-all is a must to keep track of the moving parts on a factory floor. Our product fits and continuously monitors any injection molding machine, whether purchased and installed in 2018 or 1978.

3. **Manufacturers spend too much valuable time waiting for, installing, and being trained on new equipment.**

    For most of the injection molding industry buying new equipment means waiting weeks for its arrival, investing a lot time and energy in learning a complicated control, and teaching operators and maintenance support how it all works. At Forward Loop, we set out to build a product that could be air shipped in less than a week and installed in under 15 minutes without any training to get up and running.

4. **Plastics injection machinery monitoring usually focuses on the injection unit while overlooking the mechanics of the machine.**

    Injection molding is a complicated process, so process monitoring and control systems have become more and more popular in the industry. Most of these tools give manufacturers a better understanding of what their injection units are doing. While it is extremely important to keep tabs on how the injection process is going, this focus leaves other machine maintenance issues hidden in plain sight. Making good parts without breaking machines also requires keeping tracking of the clamps, platens, gears, and other moving parts on the machine. At Forward Loop, we believe there are opportunities to help manufacturers make better preventative maintenance decisions by continuous, real-time monitoring of the mechanics of machinery. 

With the aim of providing fast notifications about mechanical issues on any injection molding machine anywhere in the world, we are hard at work on Mold Monitor, a connected sensor that fits your machines and your budget.

Mold Monitor attaches to the mold inside of an injection molding machines, and it requires no wifi and no training. The sensor continuously monitors cycle counts, cycle times, and statistics about how your molds are moving during production. We keep track of how many cycles have run on each mold and provide that information in regular consolidated reports directly to your email inbox. Each time a mold runs for a specified number of cycles, we notify maintenance and technical support right away on their smartphones.

Want to know more? Get in touch at [info@forward-loop.com](mailto:info@forward-loop.com)